Good afternoon and
welcome to session 134,
Advanced Dashboard Widgets.
I have one favor to ask
of you before we start.
If you have seats in between
you and you're in the middle,
try to move in and leave aisle seats
open so people who are coming in,
there's already people
sitting out along the side,
so we can get everybody a seat.
It's just a nice thing to do.
My name is Christian Wagner.
I'm a technical writer
with TechPubs at Apple.
I've been involved with the Dashboard
project for a couple of months now.
I've been writing some
of the documentation.
We're here to tell you today about
some of the advanced technologies that
you can integrate into your Widget
to help take it into the next level,
to help really make it more interactive,
and to leverage all the different
technologies that you might
ever want to put into a Widget.
Really quick,
at our sessions yesterday we covered
how to make the basic Widget,
so just info, plist, keys,
and what's required in a file, images,
and things to that effect.
We also talked about some design tips,
how to localize your Widget,
working with Widget
backs and preferences,
and finally some of the Widget
events that you might want to
take advantage of in your Widget.
Beyond that, or actually today,
we're going to assemble a Widget
from scratch right in the beginning
just in case you weren't there,
so we'll try to bring you up to speed.
And today we're going to focus on
a few more higher level functions:
command line utilities and integrating
them in scripts into your Widget,
HTTP requests, network access,
pulling data from the Internet.
After that we'll be going into
Widget plugins and WebKit plugins,
and finally we'll round it out
with some useful little bits,
tidbits that you might want to be aware
of when you're making your Widget.
Just little niceties and other
things you might want to use.
So, one thing which I want to dive into
before we talk about anything else,
and it's this idea of access keys.
There are these info-plist keys that
you need to set if you're going to
do accessing networking resources,
if you're going to use a system utility,
if you're going to
wind up using a plugin.
And you need to set these,
because a lot of the things
that are in this presentation
don't work unless you use these.
And I'll point out, when we go to demo,
where you can find this
in the documentation.
So, on to our first topic.
We're going to talk about
command line access.
And the first thing you should
be aware of is that you need to
set a key in your info-plist,
and that's the allow system key.
And it should be a Boolean value.
You should set it to true, or to yes.
You use widget.system,
and that lets you run
a command line utility.
There's two parameters at play here.
The first one is the command.
So, whatever command you're going to run,
whether it be a script or a
full Unix command line utility.
And you should definitely
specify the entire path to that.
Not just the command name itself,
but you should specify
if it's in user bin.
A lot of times it won't
work unless you do that.
And then the second thing,
which you might or might not specify,
is a handler.
And this is what toggles the two
modes that widget.system runs in.
It runs in either synchronous
or asynchronous mode.
So synchronous means that it's
going to block your widget,
and that's the first thing
we're going to talk about today.
And you use this mode by passing
the handler a value of no.
So your entire widget will block
while the command executes,
and will only continue once it's done.
And there's three properties
that you can use to do this.
There's three properties available here.
So I should backtrack really quick.
When you call widget.system,
you can either just append one of
these properties to the call itself,
and then you'll get the output string,
which is what's written
to standard output,
the error string, which is what's written
to standard error,
or you'll get the status,
which is the status code
the command ends with.
And you use this by either, like I said,
just appending that property
to the end of the call itself,
or you call the command and
assign it to a variable,
and then on that variable,
you ask for the output string,
or you ask for the error string,
the status, anything like that.
So we're going to go to demo here.
If I could have demo one, please.
and what do you know,
there's a documentation update available.
So I'm not going to do it now,
but you should always have
the latest documentation.
So we're going to make a Widget.
It's very simple and it's a slightly
modified of Widget versus the one
we saw in the overview yesterday.
It's called Uptime and all it does
is it calls the Uptime command.
It's pretty straightforward,
pretty simple.
We're going to show you how to make it
and we're going to make it from scratch.
We're literally just going to make
a new folder here on the desktop
and we're going to call it "uptime".
And the first things I'm just going
to drop in here right away are
the images required by a Widget.
For review, there's two images
required in every Widget.
There's "default.ping" which is
the background pattern used by
the Widget while it's loading.
And then we're also going to use it as
the background pattern for our Widget.
You don't have to do this, but we do it.
And then there's also just an icon,
it's generic in this case,
just a simple icon.
And that's used in the Widget
bar to represent your Widget,
by the way.
Sorry, I didn't quite hear that.
Well, let's turn on Zoom then.
So I can show you those.
Nope, not VoiceOver, Zoom, Command,
Option.
Okay, so let's do that.
Here's the first one.
Zoom in on that.
And again, this is a PNG.
It has to be a PNG.
It's the only file format that
Dashboard uses for these things.
And the nice thing about using PNG is
you get a nice modern graphic that is
16-bit support and it supports alpha,
transparency.
It's just a great format to work with.
And then our icon.png
Nothing too special
going on there either.
It's just a 75 by 75 pixel image.
And again, these must be named,
let's zoom out again,
must be named default and
icon.png respectively in order
for Dashboard to find them.
So now that we have the
basics in place here,
let's go into the actual
code that we need to write.
There's not much.
So just so you know,
the whole time I'm going to be using
this program called Demo Monkey,
and this lets me write code
without having to write code.
I'm just going to be dragging and
dropping all the code that I need here,
because watching me
type is pretty boring.
But what I'm going to do here
is I'm going to go into Xcode,
and I'm going to make an HTML file.
And all it's going to have in
it is just the usual HTML tags,
opening and closing HTML tags.
It's going to have a body,
and in the body we're going
to have a background image.
In this case,
we're just going to use the default.png.
And then we're going to have some text,
some placeholder text that
lets our users know that,
hey, we're going to retrieve the uptime.
But this is a placeholder that's first
showed while the... Retrieval happens.
So we're going to save this.
Actually, hold on.
I'll do it with Command-S.
And I'm going to save it on
my desktop inside the Widget.
And I'm just going to
call this one uptime.html.
And that's pretty much it for now.
We're also going to
use a CSS file in here.
And what goes on in here
isn't too terribly important.
We're just doing some placement.
So we're placing the text,
we're giving it a font style,
we're setting it to bold,
we're making it white,
and we're just positioning it
absolutely within the Widget.
This is standard CSS,
nothing crazy going on here.
And the body,
we're setting its margins to zero.
And the reason you do that
is because you don't want to,
these are web apps,
you don't want to have
to rely on margins.
Web apps usually don't have margins.
So we're going to save this one.
And we're going to just
call this uptime.css.
Okay,
this has all been pretty fun and nice,
but let's get into the JavaScript.
Let's get into the good stuff.
So the first thing we're going
to do is we're going to sign
up for two notifications.
And we covered these yesterday,
but as a quick recap,
you can be notified when the
Dashboard is shown and hidden.
And you do this using handlers,
WidgetOnShow and WidgetOnHide.
And you just assign functions that are
called whenever these events happen.
So I have two, both of these used here.
I use WidgetOnShow and I set
it to the function Uptime.
So let me pull the
Uptime function in here.
And I'm going to set it to
a little bit convoluted,
but not too bad.
So what I do here is...
The first thing I do is grab the
widget text that I have inside the DOM.
This lets me work with it later on.
Then I get to the good stuff.
I call the command.
Here I'm using widget.system.
The first parameter I'm
passing in is userbinuptime.
The second thing I'm passing in is no.
This will run it synchronously.
The widget will stall on the
execution of this command.
But that's okay.
It's a very quick command.
It puts back one string.
We'll get away with it this time.
And then I'm going to place the
inner text inside the HTML of the
element that's going to hold our
output to the result of the command.
I'm going to do its output string.
So that means...
We're going to pass it the output string.
So this is whatever is put to
standard output is going to be then
put back into the Widget itself.
And then, you'll notice I signed
up for another handler.
This is Widget on Hide,
and I set it to this
function I called reset.
So let's bring that in.
Reset just takes the uptime that's
in the Widget and wipes it out,
puts a placeholder thing on there.
The reason being is when a
Widget shows up on the Dashboard,
it might take it a minute to run,
or not a minute,
but a few seconds to run the uptime
command and actually put it in there.
We don't want them to see the
previous uptime because that
might be really misleading.
So we're just going to put some
placeholder text whenever it's hidden,
in this case, this retrieving text.
And then we're going to save
this and put it in our Widget.
We're going to call this uptime.js.
So we have a lot of the
nuts and bolts in place.
The last thing which we need to do
though is go back into our HTML and
we need to reference the CSS and the
JavaScript file that we just made.
So I'm going to just
grab that right here.
It's pretty straightforward.
In our head, I need to add an opening
head statement here.
and I will introduce the style and import
the uptime.css that I created a minute
ago and I also then import the string,
the JavaScript that I wrote
that has the Widget.System call.
And that is basically it.
Now, I've done all of the Widget work.
I still need to do one last thing,
and that is I need to make an Info.plist.
This is the file that Mac OS X and
Dashboard and the Finder use
to supply work with the Widget.
It sets up all the things that the
system needs to know about this Widget.
So I'm going to go in Xcode here
and really quick assemble that.
Every Info.plist file starts off
with just some XML descriptions
and some doc types,
DTD setup, and things to that effect.
So that goes first.
Then we bring in the OS required keys.
We have things like a
CFBundle Display Name.
This is the name of the Widget
that's used in the Widget Bar.
We have the CFBundle Identifier.
This is a unique string across
all Widgets that identifies this
Widget to Dashboard and Mac OS X.
We have the Bundle Name.
This is different than the
Display Name because this is what
a lot of monitoring utilities
like Activity Monitor uses.
And then finally we
have a CFBundle Version.
This is used for version conflicts.
So if you release multiple
versions of your Widget,
you want to increment this by some
value so that Dashboard always
knows which is the most recent,
which one to use.
So those are the ones required by OS X.
And now there's the
Dashboard specific ones.
First one is the main HTML.
And here I just specify uptime.html.
This is the file that contains pretty
much my implementation of my Widget.
We're going to change
where the close box is.
By the default,
a Widget's close box is over the top
left corner of its underlying window.
But if you use a Widget that has
some type of alpha around it,
some type of transparency,
you should really move that close
box in so that's over the top
left corner of the actual graphic.
And the final thing which we're
going to use here is Allow System.
So this is the Info.plist key
I told you about before.
And this will turn on command
line access for my Widget.
And you'll notice that it has a
Boolean value and I set it to true.
So we're going to close that off.
And that is that.
So we're going to save it.
We're going to name it Info.plist.
And again, that's a required name,
required spelling.
And that is our Widget.
So fingers crossed.
We're going to throw in
a .wdgt extension here.
And then it asks,
do you want to make this a Widget?
Yes, we do.
And sure enough, there we go.
Handy dandy little Widget.
Okay, can I go back to slides please?
So now that we've shown you how to
use Widget.Systems synchronously,
we're going to show you how
to use it asynchronously.
And this is usually what
we recommend that you do.
Asynchronous operation means
that the Widget executes
concurrently to your Widget.
So the Widget won't get held up in case
you're running a longer command or you're
running a script that has continuous
output or something to that effect.
And you use it,
you toggle on this asynchronous
mode by supplying a handler.
So in this example,
we're supplying a function
called endHandler.
And that function needs
to accept one argument.
That argument will be an object that
you can then call either outputString,
errorString, or statusOn to get the final
information about the Widget
after it's done executing.
In addition, we have a couple of handlers
you should be aware of.
There's onReadOutput and onReadError.
And so these are called whenever the
command actually writes something to
standard output and standard error.
And whatever handlers you provide
here need to accept one argument,
and that's going to be the string that
was written to the appropriate output.
So in this example,
we call just some script,
some Perl script.
And then in the endHandler,
we just take whatever the output was
and just dump it into our Widget.
In addition to the properties,
there's also some methods in case you
need to interact with your command.
So for instance,
if you're taking a Perl script and
you keep feeding it information
or pulling information out of it,
there's cancel,
which just quits it straight out.
There's writeString,
which just writes to standard input.
And then there's close,
which sends standard input in EOF,
an end of five.
So it's for gracefully quitting
your command versus cancel,
which just kills it on the spot.
And again, it works like this.
You just call whatever
command you're using.
And we're just writing some string.
And then when we're done with it,
we send it closed.
So it's pretty straightforward.
And let's go to demo here.
So if you downloaded the source
code ahead of time for this session,
I suggest you pull up the Voices example.
And let me pull out the...
There's two versions... Hi.
So there's two versions of
this Widget in this project.
There's a synchronous
and asynchronous version,
and we're going to start
with the synchronous one.
And all this Widget does,
as you already heard,
it uses Macintok to take
whatever string I type in here,
I can select a voice,
and then I can spit that string back out.
So I'm just going to say hi to my mom.
She's very proud of me today,
so I think she owes that.
And sure enough, it just says that.
It says "Hi," I can choose a voice here.
But there's a... Howdy.
So, this can get really annoying though.
Let's say I paste "Hi Mom"
in here a couple of times.
All of a sudden,
there's no way for me to stop it.
Short of muting it.
So, this is not a solution.
This is not how you should
be doing your Widget.
So we're going to take this Widget and
we're going to make it asynchronous.
And I think we can safely
turn the sound back on.
I'm going to take the synchronous
version and bring it on my desktop.
In case you didn't know,
you can take any Widget and pop it open.
If you command-click on it and choose
"show package contents" that opens
up the Widget bundle in the Finder.
I'm going to be using Demo
Monkey to provide my code for me.
All we're going to be doing this
time is we're just going to be
modifying the JavaScript code.
Feel free to try to follow along here.
One thing which I would recommend
you do is in the project which
I submitted for you guys to have,
just take the two JavaScript files
and use our file merge utility.
Put the one on the left and
the other on the right and just
follow along as I change things.
So basically the JavaScript in
here is pretty simple.
It has some comments.
Not enough, but enough.
And the one we're going to
look at here is called Speak.
This is what's actually called when
you click on that Speak button.
And it does a whole bunch of
regular expressions to make sure
we have the right characters in the
string and all that other stuff.
But what's really the
good stuff is right here.
We have if window.widget.
Again, we wrap our widget.system calls
inside of this window.widget call.
And the reason for that is because
if you were to run this widget
in Safari for debug purposes,
you wouldn't want this called because
execution would just halt on the
spot and it wouldn't be pretty.
And I have this global variable
called currentlyBeingSpoken.
So whatever the current
widget.system command executing is,
I just put it inside of this variable.
And I'm going to be using that later on.
That's why I pointed it out now.
So right now we're just
calling widget.system and
we're using osascript to say,
to pass a say command.
You can also use the say one.
I just used osascript
because that's how I felt.
And right now we're using null here,
but I'm going to replace this
with a version that has a handler.
So I'm going to comment this out.
You'll notice that this one has "done"
on it as a handler instead of "no".
So I have to supply a "done" button.
We'll get there in a second.
I'm also going to add in here the
capability of having a "stop" button.
Because if I want to be able to
have this Widget stop talking,
I'm going to want to
have a "done" button.
So inside of the HTML there's
the "speak" button text.
And in the case that we're speaking,
I'm having it set its text to "stop".
And then I also have the button itself,
I use the DOM to change its handler.
Because right now if someone
clicks on that button,
they're going to get the "speak" one.
I'm going to provide a "cancel"
function which is going to get called.
And that's going to be able
to cancel this straight out if
someone hits the "stop" button.
So the first one of those,
the cancel function,
just does this right here.
If it makes sure we're
running within a Widget again,
if window.widget,
it takes currently being spoken,
whatever's being spoken right now,
and cancels it.
And then it does some clean-up
work with regards to the UI.
But then it calls the done function,
and that's also what gets called when our
command is just run on its own naturally,
and it's run its course.
It just does some cleanup.
That's basically all it does.
It just cleans up the UI and changes
the button text back to speak.
It doesn't actually do anything
with the Widget.SystemCall at all.
It just sets it to null
for bookkeeping purposes.
So let's go ahead and save this.
[Transcript missing]
Hi Mum, Hi.
And enough of that.
So if I have it speak again though,
you'll notice that when I close it,
it's still talking and that's
not a good behavior either.
So we're going to mute that in the
meantime and we're going to go back
to our JavaScript file and we're
going to add a remove handler.
This is another one of the
events we talked about yesterday
that you can sign up for.
You can be notified for
when a Widget is removed.
So we just have this function that
I'm going to have called whenever
the Widget is removed called removed.
And that function contains I think
a whopping three lines of text.
It has, it just checks if something
is being spoken and if so,
it cancels it.
So we'll save that.
Load the Widget again.
or you know what, we'll go all out.
I'm amazed that I can type right now,
all right.
I sure like being inside
this fancy computer.
I hope you all know where that's from,
but if not,
I'll tell you after the session.
So if I have it speaking again,
and I get rid of it, it stops talking.
So this is kind of how Widgets
should behave in this case.
So that's it for demos.
Can we go back to slides, please?
So, I've talked to you about using
Widget.Systems synchronously
and asynchronously.
I'm now going to bring up Matt Drance,
one of our DTS engineers,
and he's going to talk to
you about network resource
access inside of your Widget.
Thanks.
Good, much better.
Okay, so,
as Christian already introduced me,
I'm Matt Drance,
and I am the Dashboard Rep in DTS.
So, should you guys run into any problems
with your Widget development,
or questions, or concerns,
I'm one of the guys
you'd want to talk to.
Of course, the goal of this session is
for you to not have to do that.
We'll see how well it goes.
So, I'm going to be talking to
you about network access,
specifically web-based content like XML,
HTML, other feeds that you
might have access to.
Along Christian's theme of using keys,
the first thing you want to do when
you're starting to access the outside
network is set the allow network
access key in your Info.plist.
Then there's this magical
JavaScript object called
the XMLHTTP request.
A lot of you probably
know about this already.
If you've been fishing around in our
own Widgets that come with the system,
you see this in Proxmox.
It's a pretty extensive
use all over the place.
And what it does is it basically
is like a headless web connection,
and it goes ahead and does a
fetch just like a browser would,
but gives you access to all
of that content rather than
just rendering it on screen.
So,
using an XMLHTTP request is as simple as
instantiating the object in JavaScript,
setting handlers for when the
request is finished or in progress,
and we'll show you that in a second.
You open the HTTP connection
with a destination URL.
You send the request,
and then in the handler
function that you said earlier,
you go ahead and get the content
and work with it in whatever
fashion that you want it to.
So, the first half,
setting up the request.
Like I just said before,
you set a handler function.
It could be one of two handlers
that we make available to you.
One of them is onReadyStateChange,
and this is an incremental handler.
During the process of the request,
it goes through a number of values
starting with zero and going
through to four when it's complete.
Alternatively,
if you don't really care about
the incremental function,
you can set up a function
called the "Handler" function.
So, if you want to make
progress of the request,
you can just set an onLoadHandler,
which will be called at the very
end when everything's done loading.
You go ahead and set your request type,
like a GET or a POST,
and specify a URL using the open method.
And we usually recommend,
much like the system command,
that you pass "true"
for asynchronous mode,
especially if you're in the
case of a bogged down server
or a slow network connection,
you'll be blocking your widget's
execution for the whole time
that that request is waiting.
So,
it's best to do it in synchronous mode.
So, you can set up a request header,
and you can set up a request
header in the same way that you
would in an asynchronous mode,
and put up some kind of progress bar,
loading indicator, something like that.
And you can optionally
set request headers,
if you know what kind of
request you need to send,
if there's any additional data that
needs to come in with the request.
And then finally, you send it.
So, here's an example of that code.
This is really as simple as it gets.
Create the XML HTTP request.
Set your, in this case we're doing
onReadyStateChange,
and process rec change is a
function that's declared somewhere
else in the JavaScript file.
And that will be called as
the request state changes.
And we call,
in this case we're doing a get to a
URL that's been specified somewhere else.
We pass in true for asynchronous mode,
and then we finally send the request.
So when the request is done loading
and you get your response back,
you need to handle it somehow.
Well, that handler that we set earlier is
going to be called and at that point,
depending on whether you're using
onLoad or onReadyStateChange,
in the case of onReadyStateChange,
you want to check for the right state.
In other words, a state of four indicates
that the request is complete.
At that point,
you can go ahead and try to
inspect the server response.
You can do things like get a header.
You can get all of the headers
and work with them later.
And then the real thing you want
to work with is the request text
or the request XML properties.
And we'll go into the difference
of those in just a second.
So here's some code that handles a
response and again this is that process
rec change function that we assigned
as the handler a couple slides ago.
We check for a ready state of 4
and a status of 200 which is a
complete OK status from the server.
If the XML exists,
we go ahead and we process the response
XML in a dynamic HTML sort of fashion.
Otherwise, we go ahead and send out
some kind of error message.
So what are these two properties?
Response XML versus Response Text?
Well,
the Response XML property is the one
that you really want to use if you can.
It's really, really useful.
It's a fully functional
DOM tree object in JavaScript.
It allows you to do all of the
kind of functions that you're used
to doing in a normal DOM tree,
like get element by tag name,
get element by ID, so on and so forth.
It's a lot easier to work with.
The alternative would
be the Response Text.
Is that Response HTML?
No.
That's my fault.
That's supposed to say Response Text,
and the text is basically just
a huge string representing
the source of the document.
And of course, the disadvantage of this,
you can work with it as much as you want,
but now you're going to have
to do manual string parsing,
regular expression stuff,
all that kind of thing.
So if you have the possibility
and the opportunity,
you really want to work with it.
So if you have the possibility
and the opportunity,
you really want to work with it.
with the response XML.
The Response XML property.
Now in order to use Response XML,
you need to have a MIME type of text
XML coming back from the server.
If you don't,
or if you don't know if you will,
you can always make the
override MIME type call on the
request before sending it out.
And then that will at least
get that hurdle out of the way,
and assuming the XML you
get back is well formed,
you will get a proper DOM tree back.
Okay, and now we're going to show you
what I've just been talking about.
Can we go to demo two, please?
Wonderful.
So how many of you took a
look at the sample RSS example
that came down with this,
that was associated with this talk?
How many of you got it to work?
I didn't think so.
Okay, so,
and this actually goes back to one
of the questions that was asked
at one of the earlier sessions.
Let's go ahead and open this guy.
And what this is supposed to
do is show a bunch of downloads
from the Apple Dashboard site.
Unfortunately, it's not there.
And going back to the question
that was asked in the initial talk,
the problem here is we finished
this sample two or three weeks ago.
Unfortunately, on Monday,
we changed the URL to the download feed.
So those of you wondering about
legal issues and whatnot when
using somebody else's feed,
there's that, but there's also the fact
that you don't control it,
and they can change it out from
under you whenever you want.
Whenever they want, not when you want.
If it was what I want,
it wouldn't have changed.
Let's see what we can do about this.
For those of you who
have the project open,
I have the answer,
and it's wonderfully simple.
We're just going to open up
the sample RSS JavaScript file.
Down at the beginning of this file,
this is the URL that
we're going to be using.
And what we need to do is just take
out the Mac OS X and put in a home.
Let's not do it in caps.
Okay, so while we're in here,
let's just have a look
at what's happening.
Well, let me show you how it works
so you don't fall asleep.
All right, and there it is, finally.
So what this is is just a chronological
list of the Widgets that are available
on the Mac OS X download page.
As opposed to the Safari site
with the same URL,
which I would love to show you right now.
Let's not do that one.
So here's the HTML version.
And as you can see,
if we were going to be working with this,
it would probably be a lot of work
to go ahead and parse all this
HTML and get out what we wanted.
So instead,
we're going to go get the RSS feed.
And I just showed you that a second ago.
And let's take a quick look at that.
This is a little overwhelming at first.
This is really just some raw XML that
gets brought down with the feed.
You can start to see these things
like Oregon Coastal Webcam Widget.
I saved this earlier.
This may not be the
newest Widget anymore.
But we basically have a bunch of
items here defined with an item tag,
and we have a title, and a link,
and description, which I don't think
we're going to be using,
and a publish date.
You can see that in this case
we're just displaying the
title and the publish date.
When we click on one of these we
use the widget.openurl command to
go ahead and open it in Safari.
So as you can see,
or as I'll show you in a second,
let's go on down to the...
XML loaded function.
And this is going to be,
this is what we're setting here using
the onLoad handler and the slides
we're using on ready state change.
Here we're using onLoad.
And this is going to get called
when the feed is finally loaded.
Then we go ahead and we
start working with the XML.
If the response XML property exists,
which in this case it does,
we go ahead and we get the contents.
We get the RSS block.
And then we start to
actually walk down the tree.
For all of the items down here.
And this find child function
is actually really simple
and I want to show it to you.
We basically just walk through the
DOM tree from that XML that we got.
And we basically look for matches
with the name that we requested.
And it's basically a much
simpler implementation of doing
something like get element by
ID or get elements by tag name,
which is going to give you everything
by just brute forcing the entire thing.
So by walking down the tree,
we can get this done a lot
cleaner and a lot quicker.
And I hope you can see
the difference here.
If we didn't have this
response XML element,
we'd basically be scraping
through this whole thing,
either using a bunch of, you know,
index of and substring calls or
a big fat regular expression.
So this is a lot cleaner.
And, you know,
we go ahead and we get the title
and the link and the publish date,
like I pointed out to you in the RSS.
And we see our widget.
So I think that's about it.
Can we go back to slides, please?
Now let's talk a little
bit about plugins.
What is a plugin?
There are a couple of plugins
you can use in Dashboard.
The first one is a Widget plugin.
A Widget plugin is something that
will give you JavaScript access
to non-visual native services,
data kind of stuff,
APIs that are available to
the system but not necessarily
available to web applications.
An example of this is
the Address Book widget.
That widget does all of its
display using standard web stuff,
HTML, JavaScript, CSS,
but it actually needs system
resources to go get those
names out of the Address Book.
It uses a Widget plugin to
do that behind the scenes.
Now the difference between
this and an Internet plugin,
an Internet plugin is the more
traditional plugin that most
of you are probably used to.
It's a view-based graphical
addition to the actual layout,
to the actual web content.
You use it and you embed
it using the Internet.
You can use the embed tag just like you
always would with old school plugins.
You could use our new WebKit API or
you could use the old Netscape API.
An example of this is the
Phone Book widget which actually
implants a special drop-down to
do that searching that it does.
That's not a normal web control.
It's something that we
wrote as an Internet plugin.
Widget Plugins are non-graphical.
To use them in a Widget,
you set the plugin Info.plist key.
The value of that key is going to be
the full name of the Widget plugin
with a .widgetplugin extension.
You start as a foundation bundle
as opposed to an app kit bundle
because it's non-graphical.
You need to implement a few methods.
The most important is initWithWebView,
which is a standard
Objective-C initialization method.
This is required for Widget plugins.
This method is going to be
called when the plugin loads,
and that's actually before any
of your web content is loaded.
The plugin is loaded very early in
the whole Widget loading process.
So if you fail to implement this method,
if you throw an exception or crash in it,
you're not going to see
anything in your Widget.
There are some other methods that you
need to implement that are part of
the informal web scripting protocol.
Windows Script Object Available is
selector excluded from web script,
is key excluded from web script.
I'll explain to you specifically
what those do in a second.
In it with WebView.
Like I said,
it's required for all plugins
and it's a simple initialization.
Whatever you need to do to
get your plugin started.
If you need to go talk
to some native service,
you might want to hook into it
at that point so you don't have
to bog yourself down later when
you get your first real request.
The other thing is
Windows Script Object Available.
This is called shortly
after the initialization.
You're passed a web script object.
I think you can see up here
what the example of this is.
The highlighted part there
is where we set ourselves,
in this case the plugin object instance,
for a key.
Where is this key going?
This web script object that you're
getting passed here is a Cocoa wrapper
to the JavaScript window object.
All those calls you made to window.widget
and onShow and things like that.
That is the window object.
By doing this set value for key,
we're going to allow your
plugin to be referenced
implicitly in JavaScript using,
in this case, my plugin.
It's now part of the window
object on the JavaScript side.
The other optional
method implementations.
We say optional because your
plugin is not going to break
if you don't implement them.
However, it's going to be fairly useless.
They're optional,
but if you want to get anything done,
you should probably write them.
The most important one is "webscript
name for selector". This is
how you expose specific methods
in your plugin to JavaScript.
You receive a selector, in this case,
basically the method that is
going to be called at some point.
You return an NSString that is then
translated into the JavaScript equivalent
of the function that you want to call.
You don't need to implement this method,
but we really recommend you do because
Objective-C methods have colons
in them for parameter definition.
Those names tend to get mangled
when they go across the bridge,
for lack of a better word, to JavaScript.
Override all of your selector names
with a more JavaScript-friendly name,
the kind of syntax you would
expect to use in JavaScript.
Then there's
"isSelectorExcludedFromWebScript".
This either says
yes or no as far as barring access
to the method in the first place.
It's kind of a double negative thing.
If you don't want the method excluded,
you return no.
If you do want it excluded,
or you don't want it exposed...
You return no if you want to see it,
and you return yes if you don't.
The default behavior is to
return yes for everything.
and likewise there is "is_key"
excluded from Web Script and this is
literal direct key access to member
variables inside the plugin object.
We usually recommend you just
return "yes" in any case for this
and if you have something that
you want JavaScript to access,
go ahead and write an access or function
in good Cocoa programming style.
Okay,
now I'm going to show you Widget Plugins.
Can we go back to demo two please?
Okay, so again,
one of the things you should have
found in your accompanying DMG for
this session is the Fortune Widget,
which I believe is also up on our
website and part of the SDK in
Developer Examples Dashboard.
So you can roll a die and find
out where you want to get it from.
So this is a very simple Widget that
demonstrates the use of a plugin.
This particular plugin just returns a
random set of strings to JavaScript to be
displayed in this little Fortune cookie.
And I,
that's not the one I was looking for,
but...
Things are going so well right now.
I don't know.
At least that one's a little better.
So what this is doing is every
time I click on the fortune cookie,
we go ahead and we ask the
Widget plugin for a new fortune.
The Widget plugin returns
it as an NSString,
which is then translated into a
JavaScript string that we can then
just insert right into the DOM.
So how do we do this?
Well, let's go ahead and open up
the Widget for starters.
And again, this is a Widget plugin.
It's not a web plugin.
Once Xcode comes up for us,
I can show you what I mean.
Let's have a look at the HTML real quick.
The HTML is wonderfully simple.
Basically, we just have our fortune
cookie as the background,
and then we have a quote,
which is just going to be a text
string that we throw up based on
what we get back from the plugin.
So, the first thing I want to show
you is this if fortune plugin.
And fortune plugin is the name of
the Widget plugin in this case.
And this name is set using that
Windows Script object available
method when the plugin is loaded.
I'll show you that in a second.
But we're going to go ahead and
reference it using the same string
that the plugin says you should use.
And then we just start making
calls directly to it as if it were
a regular JavaScript function.
And,
In this case we have one function
called logMessage and we just go
ahead and we say log this for me
and then we go ahead and we get
our fortune back from the plugin.
And that's just going to return to
us as a normal JavaScript var and
we go ahead and we set the quotes
in our HTML to that return value.
So, pretty simple.
So let's go ahead and take a look
at the actual plugin project.
So here's our plugin.
And like I said,
the most important thing here
is the init with web view.
And we're going to go
ahead and randomize,
we're going to set up a random
number generator in our initializer,
which is going to go ahead and
work through all of our quotes.
Our quotes here is just set
up as a normal string array.
And we have our
Windows Script object available.
So this is just like in the slides,
set value self for key Fortune Plugin.
And again, Fortune Plugin is how we were
referencing it in JavaScript.
So this is setting Fortune Plugin
as a property of the
Window object in the Widget.
Because this is a simple
plugin with just two methods,
here's our web script
name for selector method.
If we're requesting Get Fortune,
this is how JavaScript should call it.
For Log Message,
this is how Log Message should call it.
So here's the difference.
So you notice that Log Message in
the Cocoa world is going to have
a colon because that represents
the parameter that gets sent in.
We're going to return this back
to JavaScript as just Log Message,
and then JavaScript will call that using
the open and close paren like it does.
So there's a little
syntactic difference here,
and you want to just basically close
those gaps by using this method.
And then isSelector
excluded from Web Script?
If it's the two methods
we want to expose,
which in this case is all of them,
we return no, otherwise return yes.
And as I said in the slides,
we always want to bar key access.
So, now granted this is admittedly
something of a contrived example,
you know,
there's no reason we couldn't just
randomize the strings in JavaScript and
call alert instead of log message.
But I think this
demonstrates real simply,
you know, what it takes to get a
Widget plugin up and running.
You know, Address Book, for example,
uses a plugin that goes ahead
and calls the Address Book API,
gets people's names and addresses,
and it basically has the
same skeleton around it.
and Get Fortune goes ahead and gets a
random number and gives us an index from
the Fortune array and returns that over.
Now you notice there's no special
conversion or preparation required.
You just return an NSString and the web
scripting protocol implementation goes
ahead and transfers it as needed for you.
So that's about it for Widget Plugins.
Go back to the slides please.
So now let's talk about WebKit plugins.
Well, unlike the Widget plugins
which used a plugin key,
and that's talking about Widget plugins,
the WebKit plugins require a key
called Allow Internet Plugins.
In other words,
anything that would be maybe in library
Internet plugins off the home directory
or something specifically in the widget.
And instead of using,
instead of explicitly calling
out the plugin like we did
with the Widget plugin,
we were just calling it
using Fortune plugin,
we need to use an embed
tag to display it.
And then when we're talking
to it later in JavaScript,
we have to get it either by the
element ID that we assign it or
we use the document embeds array
that's part of normal JavaScript.
And we're going to create
this one as a Cocoa bundle.
As opposed to the foundation bundle.
And then we're going to create
this one as a Cocoa bundle.
As opposed to the foundation bundle.
Because our goal is for
this thing to be graphical.
Otherwise,
we'd just be writing a Widget plugin.
So, and then there are the typical web
scripting APIs that we saw earlier.
You need to implement those
just like in the Widget plugin
to get scripting access.
But there's also web plugin methods
that you're going to need to implement.
The most important one is
plugin view with arguments.
And this is your initializer function
just like in it with web view.
And then you go ahead and
do object for web script,
which is basically, usually,
you're going to have a function
called object for web script.
And then you go ahead and
do object for web script,
which is basically, usually,
you're going to have a function
called object for web script.
And then you usually just return self.
And your web plugin
initialize and destroy,
which is going to be when
the plugin first gets loaded,
and then closed,
usually in the case of a browser
when the window is closed.
And we have web plugin start and stop.
And web plugin set is selected
for if you want to do something
in case the user actually selects.
It's really more useful in
Safari than in Dashboard.
So the plugin view with arguments method.
This is required by the
web plugin protocol.
You initialize the view.
And you receive an arguments dictionary.
Which contains a lot of things.
But what might be useful to you
is this is how you would get into
the attributes that you might
want to set in your embed tag.
Things like source or whatever else
you want to do to customize the
behavior of the plugin from the start.
And you go ahead and you grab that.
It's not the dictionary
that you're passed.
But it's a member of that
dictionary that's identified by
the web plugin attributes key.
And this is going to be all your
attributes from the embed tag.
So,
when you're working with WebKit plugins,
it's a little different
from working in Safari.
Something that's very important is
you're going to want to implement the
WebPluginStart and WebPluginStop methods.
And then you can, by exposing those to
JavaScript using the same stuff
that we did with Widget plugins,
you want to tie those into
the onShow and onHide events.
And the reason you want
to do this is because,
presumably, you have a visual plugin,
and it's probably doing
some kind of work,
some kind of animation.
And you don't want that plugin to consume
cycles while the dashboard is hidden.
So you can, by hooking into
WebPluginStop using onHide,
we can go ahead and shut the thing
off for now and then restart it
when the dashboard is shown again.
So I'm going to show you
a quick demo of this.
Can we go back to demo two?
Okay.
So I'm going to open up
this Picture Frame Widget,
which I believe they may have
demoed this morning at the advanced
WebKit development session.
And this Widget basically hooks
into Core Image and does a couple of
transitions through a series of pictures.
And I think the theme
here is Matisse paintings,
and it basically randomizes
the transforms that are
done and the transitions and
This rollover control here
is actually an HTML element,
not part of the plugin,
something that we just bring on when
the user mouses into the Widget.
And then by pressing start and stop
we have on-click handlers here.
and then communicate through to the
plugin using the web scripting protocol,
same way we did with the Widget plugin.
So, how is this implemented?
Well, let's go ahead and start by
looking at the familiar stuff.
And this is our web scripting
implementation here where we have a
selector excluded from web script,
web script named for selector.
This is the stuff that we
already did in the Widget plugin.
We have a few more
selectors in this case,
but the implementation
is more or less the same.
Now, I also want to have a look at the
Webkit plugin implementation.
So here's our plugin view with
arguments call and this is where we
set everything up with the plugin.
All the core image things that we need
to set up and we go ahead and we get the
width and height things in our HTML file.
Let me show you.
In the case of the Widget plugin,
we didn't have to do anything in
the HTML layout because this was
just a data service that was going
to be available in JavaScript.
But because this WebKit plugin is
doing some displayable content,
we actually show it here in
the HTML using the embed tag.
We set an ID here.
Here is our width and height.
And that width and height is what we're
grabbing over here when we go ahead and
we get the WebKit plugin attributes.
And that allows us to set the
height and width of the control,
as well as the source attribute,
which tells us which
picture to start with.
and our initialized method,
we really did everything we needed
to in plugin view with arguments
so that we leave that empty.
And here's Web Plugin
Start and Web Plugin Stop.
This is basically very simple.
We go ahead and we start the
transition timer and stop it on stop.
Let's show you the importance
of these functions right now.
I'm going to actually
bring up Activity Monitor.
You can see here,
there's our picture frame client.
And, um, well it's not playing.
So let's play it.
And you can see it's taking
up a decent amount of the CPU,
you know,
periodically when it actually has
to perform one of the transitions.
So, let's get rid of the, uh...
I'm going to hide this.
In a perfect world,
this would go down quite a bit.
Unfortunately, it isn't.
What we need to do
is be a much better
dashboard citizen and...
hook our on-hide and on-show handlers in
to go ahead and stop and start the plugin
when Dashboard is shown and hidden.
We have an onHide method,
but I have simply commented
out the code that assigns it.
So, simple as that.
and our onHide method.
Notice that it goes and gets the, oh,
I'm sorry, we call stopPlayingImages,
which is going to be,
and we basically just clear
the timeout that goes ahead and
does the stop and start there.
By assigning that handler, kill this one,
bring activity monitor back to the front,
Now we can see it's doing some work.
And now if I did these things right,
it should go ahead and
bring itself back down.
And now we're down to zero.
And it should stay there.
I'm really taking a big
risk by waiting this long.
I should quit while I'm ahead.
Alright,
so now that's a good Dashboard Citizen.
and I'm pretty sure that's
all I got to show you.
Can we go back to slides?
I think it's time for
Christian to come back.
So, now that we've told you about some
great things you can do with plugins
and command line and network access,
we're going to just touch on
a couple of other useful bits,
and I'm going to go through
a mea culpa as well.
So, first and foremost,
there's some great new
WebKit technologies you might
want to take advantage of,
and you'll find documentation on these.
There's the Canvas,
which lets you do arbitrary
drawing in a 2D space.
There was a demo of this
during our overview yesterday.
So, if you ever have to do any drawing,
instead of using a WebKit plugin
like Matt just showed you,
try to use the JavaScript Canvas.
It's just a lot cleaner,
a lot more lightweight.
It's really easy to use.
It uses core graphics like calls.
I strongly recommend you look at it.
Our Widgets use it,
so if you ever look at the
Flight Tracker Widget or a Stocks Widget,
they both use it to do
a lot of their drawing.
The Graph in Stocks uses this,
and the Airplane Arc in the
Flight Tracker does as well.
Next thing you should look
at using is the Search field.
If you ever need to do any
searching inside of your Widget,
you look at the Dictionary Widget
or the Address Book Widget.
They both have that
little round search field,
which you see in so many
of our applications.
So, that's a new input type
that is supported in Tiger.
It's called InputType=Search.
So,
you might want to consider using that,
too.
There's Drag and Drop.
You probably don't know this,
but if you were at the
Apple Design Awards,
you do know this.
The best Tiger program
was Transmit by Panic,
and they have a widget that
accompanies their application
that does Drag and Drop.
If you ever need to FTP a file,
you can put their widget
on your dashboard,
hook it up to one of your FTP servers,
and whenever you need
to send a file there,
you can just begin a drag,
show dashboard,
and drop it on this widget,
and it'll just automatically
send it to that.
So, that's a great use of Drag and Drop,
and it's one of the little
hidden gems of Dashboard,
the fact that you can do that.
The Tile Game Widget
also lets you do this.
The final thing which you
might want to take advantage
of is Pasteboard Operations.
So, copy, cut, and paste.
If you look at our Calculator Widget,
it uses this, and the reason for that is
because there's no clear
text field on the calculator,
right?
But people would probably expect to
be able to copy a value out of it,
or paste one in there.
So, there's some handlers in the body
tag there which lets you handle that.
There are also DHTML effects
that you should be aware of.
These aren't Widget-specific, really.
They're just DHTML tricks that work with
timers and resizing and things like that.
There are scroll bars and scrollers.
There's a great bit of sample code which
Matt wrote called "scroller" and it
shows you how to very easily integrate
a scrollable region inside of there.
In 10.4.1,
there are also new handlers that
let you do scroll wheel support.
We hope to have some
documentation out on that,
too.
You can also do scroll wheel
support inside of a Widget.
There's stretching.
That's what our Weather Widget does.
You'll notice when you click on it,
it stretches down.
It's basically for
toggling between two sizes.
Matt wrote a great bit of sample
code that's called "stretcher"
which teaches you how to do
that nice and clean and easy.
There's live resizing.
There's a sample code called "grid"
which lets you do live resizing.
You shouldn't use that all the time,
but sometimes it's necessary for
things like the dictionary if you
have a ton of information to show and
people want to view it all in one shot.
And then finally, there's fading.
So, if you're using a lot
of different things,
if you ever need to fade text in and out,
for instance,
you saw that the Fortune Widget,
you know, fades those fortunes in
and out instead of just,
you know, abruptly changing them.
It's a nice effect.
Matt's Fader Widget does all that, too.
So, if I could switch to
demo one really quick.
One of the things that people called
me on yesterday in the lab was the
fact that I told you to use the glass
done button which we provide for you
in System Library Widget Resources.
And I didn't give you
much more than that.
So, I'm going to fix that now
since I have a few minutes.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
start back or I'm going to finish off
today and the whole WWDC for dashboard
with the same place we started and
that's with the Hello World Widget.
And what we're going to do is we're
going to add this done button to it.
So,
I'm going to show you how we did that.
It's a little bit tricky
but it's not too hard.
So, here's the widget running, you know,
without the done button,
just the Hello World Widget.
And what we're going to do is
I'm going to pop this open here.
And of course,
I do have a script ready for this guy.
Let's bring him up.
You just got to do a couple
of things that aren't too hard
and that will let you use the
standard glass buttons for free.
It will size them automatically.
You will get all the behaviors.
It's really simple.
That way if we ever change the
artwork or anything like that,
you will get it for free.
So I'm going to take this and
I'm going to open it up here.
We've got all of our
beautiful disclaimers.
Okay,
so the first bit we are going to do is we
are going to add a new div to our body.
And the div is actually
going to be empty.
It's just going to be done.
It's going to be called done.
And we give it an ID because we are
going to reference this in JavaScript.
The command that we use in JavaScript,
by the way, will provide all the artwork.
That's why I'm not referencing it here.
So in CSS, then,
I'm also going to position it.
This is just some general
purpose cleanup work here.
Again, we are just going to position
it absolutely and then put
it roughly in the middle,
a little bit down on our Widget.
That's not too important.
Where it gets good is
inside of our JavaScript,
inside of the JavaScript portion of
the head portion of the HTML file,
we are going to include
as our source system,
library, Widget resources, button,
generic button, dot, generic button, dot,
js.
So there are some functions in here
that auto-generate the buttons for you.
We are going to use one of them.
So just remember, look in system,
library,
Widget resources if you want this stuff.
The file is right there
in the button folder.
So we just have to include it here.
And then once we do,
we are going to use an onLoad handler.
[Transcript missing]
DoneClicked obtains the
DOM text and changes its text
to "Goodbye" In our body,
I need to put an onLoad handler
that calls the loaded function
I put in here a minute ago.
I'm going to save this, close it,
and open it.
And sure enough, I've got this glassy
nice little done button.
Click on it and it says goodbye.
And that is my last demo.
Slides please.
So, today we have covered a couple
of really important things.
Technologies that probably,
that you are going to want to
leverage if you want to take
your Widget to the next level.
These are great technologies
which open up a whole world
of usage for your Widget.
You can use command line
utilities and any type of,
anything that you can do
with Unix you can do here.
Scripts or command lines,
things like uptime and stuff like that.
We have given you access to HTTP requests
and XML feeds so that you can do
anything with network resources.
Pull images off, anything like that.
We have given you Widget plugins that
let you access native APIs so you
can integrate with your own classes,
our frameworks, anything in Objective C.
And finally,
we have given you some great WebKit,
the capability to do WebKit plugins
and that lets you do custom drawing,
OpenGL, menus, anything like that from
within your Widget.
So, at this point I would like to
point you to the documentation.
There are two bits there.
There is the dashboard programming
guide and the dashboard reference which
both cover everything that we have
talked about today and more in depth.
There are also some great
JavaScript documents about
Safari and JavaScript so you might
want to look at those as well.
There is also the sample
code I mentioned before.
That is there as well.
If you have any questions,
feel free to contact Alan Samuel.
He is our evangelist.
You can get a hold of
him at Bluger1@apple.com.
And feel free to join our mailing list.
We have a dashboard developer
community at lists.apple.com.
You can browse the archives there and
see what has been discussed already.
And then feel free to join and
ask questions about your Widgets.
That is dashboarddev@lists.apple.com.